In this video, we will discuss
two project management
methodologies.
The first is the
predictive model.
This is also called waterfall
in software development.
The predictive model follows
a more linear path for
project scheduling.
We'll compare that with
Agile project management,
which uses more of an iterative
process to place value
on providing the customer
deliverables more frequently.
There are different lifecycles
in project management.
First, let's take a look at
the predictive
project management
or traditional project
management style.
You will use this project
methodology where
your milestones are more
defined and more sequenced.
This methodology also doesn't
really respond well to changes.
It isn't as Agile, if you will.
It follows the stages
of initiating,
planning, executing,
controlling, and
monitoring, and closing.
In each of these stages have
well-defined
processes and tools.
When it comes to managing
the project schedule,
it may follow a stage gate
process more on this later.
Then we have a project
management called Agile.
An Agile project
management is one that
prioritizes creating value
through quicker releases.
While traditional
project management
doesn't respond well to change,
Agile welcomes changes to
the project and to
the project schedule.
In this slide, we have
a graphical example of
a predictive methodology in
terms of the project timeline.
In the traditional schedule,
the approach is linear.
All phases of the project will
occur in a predicted sequence.
The project team must first
complete planning
before moving on to
execution and then verification
and then delivery
to the customer.
The project manager plans
the schedule upfront.
They try to reduce the risk of
any schedule changes or
scope changes because
the predictive model
doesn't really
allow many changes in the model.
Since all the planning is
done in the beginning,
there isn't any changes due
to the scope or the budget.
If there are those changes,
they'll really throw
off your schedule.
Now let's compare this to
the Agile methodology.
The Agile method invite changes.
It works on an editor
iterative process.
The Agile approach encourages
more frequent delivery.
It really focuses on creating
value early and often.
This means that teams work more
collaboratively to plan
smaller iterations
of the project,
execute on those iterations,
on each smaller segment,
verify them, and
then deliver them to
the customer again
to create value.
Now, this isn't to say
that Agile is better than
predictive in every situation
or for every project.
Many projects lend themselves to
a traditional project
methodology very well.
Especially when the scope
is well-defined or if
the project is similar to a
previous successful project.
In this class, I will discuss
project scheduling from
the perspective of a
traditional project
or a waterfall project.
But I did at least
want to introduce
you to some of the
basic terminology of
project's schedules in terms
of Agile project management.
The Agile project manager
uses short cycles
of planning and then jumps
right into execution.
This is all done in
something called sprints.
The project manager in Agile
is called the scrum master.
Project scheduling
and monitoring is
often done using a
system called Kanban.
What Kanban is it's
essentially a work
in progress for the Agile team.
As parts of the
project progress,
they move across the
Kanban board from
left to right until they
are tested, validated,
and delivered to the end-user
or to the customer
or to the client.
Now, don't worry if this
all seems foreign to you,
especially if you've just
completed my first course.
I do have another course called
Agile project management,
where I will explain the
entire process in more detail.
I just wanted to
introduce the concept of
the sprint sense
project scheduling
is vastly different
between the methodologies.
Now let's move on to
predictive models.